>>SEAN STONE: What do the
origin of money and a demon
named Baphomet have to do
with the spiritual war?
Let's enter the Buzzsaw.
[THEME MUSIC]
Welcome to Buzzsaw where we
cut through the mainstream
narrative to explore
the hidden truths.
I'm your host, Sean Stone.
Tricia Twyman is
joining me today.
She's a non-fiction writer on
esoteric history, mythology,
occultism, and other odd topics.
Her most well-known books
include "Clock Shavings,"
"The Merovingian Mythos,"
"Solomon's Treasure,"
and "Money Grows on
the Tree of Knowledge."
Her latest book is "Baphomet,
the Temple Mystery Unveiled,"
co-written with Alexander
Rivera of the theaeoneye.com.
Twyman has appeared on several
radio shows, television shows,
documentaries, and
today she joins
me to discuss the esoteric
imprints of the Knights Templar
from the past to the present.
So let's start by talking
about these Knights Templar.
Many people have heard of them.
We know that in the 14th century
that they were persecuted
all across the Catholic world.
But why were they persecuted?
>>TRACY TWYMAN: Well, it
had to do with accusations
of heresy and
blasphemous rituals
that they were
accused of performing.
So of course, it was a
order of crusading knights
chartered by the church.
And so obviously, if this
information came out,
it was bad.
It all came from a person who
had been a member of the order
and got kicked out.
And so he went to actually
the King of France
and told him-- well, it wasn't
him necessarily, but someone
in his administration--
and told him these facts,
or what he alleged
had occurred when he
was a member of the Templars.
He said that they had a
blasphemous initiation
ritual that involved denying
Christ, spitting on the cross,
and then engaging in
bizarre sexual behaviors.
So during initiation,
supposedly you
would have to kiss the
behind of another Templar
while you were there.
And then he actually also said
that they would take oaths
to instead of having
sex with women,
they would have sex
with each other.
That was somehow purer.
And then there were
even worse accusations
as well that sometimes
they did have
sex with female prostitutes.
But when they did that,
they would actually
either abort and kill the
fetus, or let the baby be born
and kill it also.
All of these really
nasty things--
so basically, they were
accused of witchcraft.
And the King of France
put them on trial.
And they were tortured into
confessing all of these things.
The amazing thing,
though, is a lot
of the confessions
were really consistent.
So it wasn't necessarily
because of the torture
that they were saying
what they were saying.
And then the Pope also
interrogated them.
They confessed the same
things to him without torture.
And eventually,
they were actually
executed by the
French government.
So it was--
>>SEAN: ---First get it
across the Catholic realm.
It was also on the wave
to Spain, I believe.
And they ultimately, some of
them, apparently found exile.
And they say they found asylum
in Scotland, for example.
So there was this
persecution beyond France.
>> TWYMAN: Oh, yeah.
Well, see, the French King
actually-- not just him,
but several kings
before him, too.
France had had a great
deal of influence
on the papacy at the time.
And actually, the
seat of the papacy
had been moved to France.
So they were really in
control of the pope.
And they made him
disband the order
and have all of these knights
arrested all over Europe.
So it was across
the Christian world,
these knights were arrested.
And not all of them were killed.
Most people think that they
all got burnt at the stake,
but only a few of them did.
But the leader did.
Jacques de Molay got
executed and several
of the other leaders.
And then the rest just--
they had to do penance.
And some of them
even joined some
of the other knightly orders.
But it's the story
in history where
everybody thinks of it as
this wrongful, like you said,
persecution.
So it's been fashionable
for a long time
to think that they weren't
guilty of these things.
But I found some evidence
that actually they were.
So I don't think
that necessarily they
were false accusations.
I'm not saying they should
have been burned at the stake.
>>SEAN: What would
the evidence be
that you would say that you
think that they actually
were guilty of these heresies?
>> TWYMAN: Well, we have a
600-page book really all about
that.
But just one of the
most striking examples
is that in 2001, someone
working for the Vatican--
her name was Barbara Frale--
she found a document that
dated from those times.
It was in the Vatican archives.
And it is the records
of this trial.
I said that the pope gave them
also the second trial, which
nobody knew about until then.
So this is new information.
And like I said, they weren't
tortured by the pope's people
when they were interrogated.
So again, there's no
real reason to think
that they were making it up.
They confessed the same things.
They confessed not as
much the ritual sacrifice.
They didn't deal with that
topic for some reason.
But they did confess
to the homosexual acts.
They admitted that it was
part of their initiation
and their oath when they joined.
Like I said, they would vow
to not have sex with women
and specifically, to not deny
their brothers sexual advances
if they were
presented with them.
So it seems like they were
guilty of those things they
confessed.
Here's the interesting thing.
The Vatican put this
information out.
This woman found the
document in 2001.
Then in 2007, they started
talking about it publicly.
In 2011, she put
out a book about it.
And there were press
releases about it.
This was a big event for the
Vatican to announce this thing.
Now they presented it as though
the Templars had been absolved.
That was actually the
headline in newspapers.
And not just
absolved, but innocent
is what is being described as.
The pope found them
to be innocent.
And when you read newspaper
articles about this,
they don't mention really
what they confessed to.
So it's been presented as though
the Templars were never guilty.
And what the Vatican
was trying to do
was put the blame for the whole
thing on the King of France
and say their man,
the pope at the time,
was just manipulated
into doing this.
And I think also
they just wanted
to make themselves look good,
because these were their guys.
They chartered the Templar.
So it's always been a
mark on their history
that they fostered and
allowed these people
to be at the forefront
of the Crusades
for 200 years with all
this stuff going on.
So anyway, the truth
is that that's not
what happened at all.
They weren't innocent.
They confessed.
And they were
absolved by the pope.
They were forgiven, not as
though they were guilty.
It was just, say some Hail
Marys and you're forgiven.
But it doesn't take away
at all from the truth
of what they confessed.
>>SEAN: So now one of the major
confessions and breakthroughs
that most people,
I think, prefer
to think about when it
comes to the Templars
is this worship of
something called Baphomet.
And Baphomet has been
portrayed by Eliphas Levi
as this goat-headed, half human,
half goat with reptilian skin.
And what is this thing?
If people think it's a demon--
but what does your research
tell you about Baphomet?
>> TWYMAN: Well, so Baphomet--
just to fit him into the story
here, this is this demon
that they were accused
of worshipping during
these blasphemous rituals.
And again, it's one of
the most consistent things
to come out of all
of their confessions.
In the confessions, they're
describing it as a head.
And there's various
descriptions.
So some people seem
to be describing it
as an actual,
mummified human head.
Some people said it was a skull.
Some people said it was
like a bust, a sculpture.
And then of the sculptures,
there were described
heads that were
like a Janus head--
two heads, sometimes three.
So what they said was that
they used it for divination.
And it was kind of their
god, their patron god.
They spoke to it.
It gave them, they said, wisdom.
It made them rich.
It made their crops grow.
They basically
worshipped it as a god.
After the trials, the subject
got forgotten for a while,
I would say.
And then in the
1800s, some people
started writing about it.
One of them was this guy named
Joseph von Hammer-Purgstall.
He wrote this book
that was in Latin.
But it was all about-- he had
found some artifacts that he
said had come from places that
had belonged to the Templars,
like churches and stuff.
And by artifacts, I mean there
were caskets, bowls, coins,
and also actual idols.
And also, there were
depictions of the idols
on some of the other items.
So it got several
different pictures
of this idol that
has horns, and it's
like a humanoid with horns.
And it's hermaphroditic.
But he said that this Baphomet.
And actually, he
said it was Mete
was the name of the figure.
And it was kind of
like Cybele, he said.
And when you look
at the pictures,
it looks very much like
the typical depiction
of the goddess Cybele.
She's got a crown
with towers on it.
But Cybele's not
normally hermaphroditic.
So this is a variation on that.
So he thought that
they were-- they
have a syncretistic
religion that they've
made up themselves.
But it includes Gnosticism
and these Cybele rights
I was telling you about.
And he thought that
Baphomet was basically
a hermaphroditic
creature, not just a head.
But he had some of the head
idols in his pictures also.
So he contributed this
idea that Baphomet was
a hermaphroditic goat creature.
And then that got picked up
by several other writers,
like Eliphas Levi.
That was probably 30 years
after this book came out,
and he actually
references it in his work.
Eliphas Levi was
an occult writer.
It would seem like the
most popular tarot deck--
the writer way of
tarot deck-- a lot
of that stuff is
inspired by Eliphas Levi.
And the devil in
that deck looks a lot
like Eliphas Levi's
depiction of Baphomet.
The way he depicted
Baphomet became iconic.
I would say when people
think about the devil,
they think about
Eliphas Levi's picture.
So this figure that
wasn't necessarily
the devil in the
beginning became the devil
in Western occult literature
from that point on.
And Baphomet became
the patron of a lot
of the Western occult orders.
I think that there's Baphomet
influence in the Freemasons.
And definitely there's this
group called the OTO now,
started by Aleister Crowley,
and Aleister Crowley
called himself Baphomet.
He basically felt that
he was an incarnation
of Baphomet in a way.
>>SEAN: It's not
really necessarily
a Satanic tradition.
It's more about, what you
mentioned, Gnosticism.
It seems to me like this is
more of Gnostic tradition.
So what is the Gnostic
tradition as we understand it?
And how perhaps
were the Templars
influenced by this
Gnostic lineage?
>> TWYMAN: Well, Gnosticism
is kind of a broad category.
And what I found
was that there were
a lot of different
interpretations of it.
But I would say the
most consistent thing
is that they all thought
that the God of the Bible
was not the highest god.
And the creator god was
not the highest god.
So basically, they
thought we were
in some kind of a prison made
by that false creator god.
And there's a higher
reality beyond that
that he's keeping us
from and a higher god
beyond that that nobody knows.
>>SEAN: So basically the
serpent in the Adam and Eve
story, for example, is actually
a liberator in that sense.
>> TWYMAN: Yeah.
Some of the darker, I would say,
Gnostic groups really-- to me,
it's almost like Satanism or
what Satanism became later,
because it's a complete reversal
of Judeo-Christian belief.
And so like you just mentioned,
the villains of the Bible
became their heroes.
But here's where it
gets even darker.
Many of those groups were
described by the church
fathers, writing about all
the different heresies that
existed at that time, they
said a lot of these groups
were engaging in these
same kind of sick rituals,
like I was just describing
the Templars doing.
So interestingly the ritual
kissing on the behind,
it shows up over and over
again in these groups.
Sometimes it's an animal,
like a goat or a cat.
And then all of these very
deviant sex rights involving
children-- some of these
groups have this idea that you
shouldn't procreate through
sex, because that's like locking
a soul into this prison.
And so they want to deny
the creator that victory.
So some of them would
basically do a ritual sacrifice
of a child if it happened to
result from their sex rituals.
And they said that
they were basically
scoring a victory on the
creator god by doing that.
And interestingly,
this stuff does show up
also in the artifacts that
Joseph von Hammer-Purgstall
wrote about.
>>SEAN: The sex rituals meaning.
≫> TWYMAN: Their sex rituals
are all over these artifacts.
You see people engaging in it.
Men with each other,
men raping boys,
men having sex with
animals-- and then
there's this very interesting
inscription that showed up
on several of the artifacts.
And remember, he said that Mete
was the name of the goddess
and Baphomet was--
>>SEAN: Is it M-E-T-E?
>> TWYMAN: Yeah.
And so Baphomet means baptism
of Mete, Mete being wisdom.
So the interpretation
of Baphomet
as being baptism of wisdom has
been around since the beginning
actually.
So anyway, on these artifacts,
there's this inscription.
And it says this-- the
distinguished charity of Mete
uproots the enemy.
Now distinguished
is like peculiar.
That's how I interpret it.
And charity, the word that
was translated from that,
it just means love basically.
And it can be interpreted
as both brotherly love
or sexual love.
And I think that if
Hammer-Purgstall is right,
which I think is quite possible,
then the Templars saw both
of those types of love
as being the same,
that you should have sexual
love with your brother.
So when they say
distinguished charity of Mete
uproots the enemy, they're
saying the strange love
of Mete uproots the enemy.
The enemy is the demiurge.
And they also saw the
planets as being his--
they called them archons--
his minions basically.
They control our fate.
>>SEAN: So demiurge
being the Jehovah,
the Judeo-Christian god?
>> TWYMAN: Right.
And the planets,
his minions-- a lot
of people who are into astrology
think the planets and stars
control our fate.
And that was very
common in the old world.
It was something that everyone
would have understood.
So on one of those caskets that
Hammer-Purgstall wrote about,
you actually see Mete
standing there naked.
She's holding these chains.
And they're hooked
up to the ceiling.
They're going up.
They're pulling
these two-- there's
a sun and a moon on either side.
So the chains are pulling
the sun and the moon down.
You can tell, because
they're upside down.
She's pulling them down.
And you got this
inscription there.
So I really think
that this is saying
that there is a way
to actually destroy
God's creation by doing this.
And I think that might have
been one of their overall goals
really.
>>SEAN: So essentially,
what we're saying
is these blasphemous
practices, and obviously, I
don't think it's
limited to the Templars,
because we've obviously
seen very similar activities
within the church itself--
pederasty and homosexuality
and who knows what
other activities beyond.
And obviously, you
mentioned Crowley
and the Gnostic
tradition thereafter.
So the idea is that this
Gnostic tradition is ultimately
trying to negate the physical,
natural order, natural laws,
natural boundaries for purposes
of spiritual liberation
and wisdom.
Is that the idea?
>> TWYMAN: Yeah.
It's hard to believe.
And that's why I think
a lot of scholars
who write about
Gnostics have thought,
these charges can't possibly
be true, because how could
anyone think that raping
children and killing babies
is spiritually enlightening.
But if you look at
the mindset behind it,
you can see how it
sort of makes sense
if you're crazy enough
to believe that.
>>SEAN: Obviously the
Templars were very powerful
in their time.
And they did have this
massive banking network.
And it does seem that
they may have even
had an influence
to the present day
in the formation
of these banking
apparatuses-- the
banking structures,
let's say-- for the
modern world even.
So what can we learn about how
they were banking and perhaps
what it might indicate for
the esoteric nature of finance
and how perhaps there
is a Gnostic component
to the financial system that
we are now still functioning
within?
>> TWYMAN: Hm, maybe there is.
Yes.
Well, I'll just go
ahead and tell you
a little bit about how they
started the banking system
and how I think it might have
affected even modern times.
When they were
chartered, they were
created to supposedly
protect pilgrims
going to the Holy Land.
That was their first job.
And then they later became the
special forces of the Crusades.
But here's how they did that.
They had preceptories,
as they called them--
like little walled, almost
their own cities basically.
>>SEAN: Garrisons---
>> TWYMAN: Yeah.
They had them all over Europe.
So you could actually
travel from wherever
you were in Europe to the Holy
Land and hit one of these sites
all along the way.
And they created
this thing where
you could deposit your
money at the beginning
and just have what they
called a chip, which
was just a coded parchment that
said how much you had put in.
And then every
stop along the way,
they'll take a little
bit out of your account.
And at the end, you can
take your money out.
So they invented the
banking system basically.
And everyone acknowledges this.
Now I've written a couple
of books about what
I call economic alchemy.
Anyone who knows about
how modern banking works,
they have something called
fractional reserve lending.
So they can actually just create
credit and give it to people
without anything behind it
or anything backing it up.
I just saw this is as kind
of analogous to alchemy,
creating gold out of lead.
And as I started
researching this stuff,
I found that actually there
was a great deal of influence
in the development of money
over time by alchemists.
And then you can actually
see an indication
of this when you look at some of
the symbols that are on money.
There's all sorts of
alchemical symbols on money,
even the stuff we use today,
and especially the dollar bill.
I actually spent a lot
of time decoding that.
So I think that whether
these people are necessarily
aware of what they're
doing, and whether they've
been perpetuating secrets
from Templars, I'm not sure.
But it seems like some
of the people that
have made very important
decisions in regards
to the development of money
were interested in alchemy.
There's even some
historical examples,
like Isaac Newton was the
Comptroller of the Currency
for a while in England.
And he was a
practicing alchemist.
And then later,
John Maynard Keynes,
the economist in
Britain, ended up
buying his alchemical
manuscripts from an auction,
because he was interested
in that subject, too.
So I think--
>>SEAN: Well, you mentioned you
studied the dollar bill and all
the esoteric symbols.
As we know, the great pyramid
with the all-seeing eye
at the top-- there's a hidden
owl in the corner of the 1.
There's all kinds of esoteric
symbols on the bill itself.
So why don't you talk
about what those represent
and how it could indicate
obviously something more
of a magical purpose behind it.
>> TWYMAN: Well, I think
with the dollar bill,
they were trying to
jazz it up a little bit.
So this design on the dollar
bill came out at the time
when they had just
taken the dollar off
of the gold standard.
And so I think they
wanted to do something
to instill people's
faith in it, because that
was the only thing that was
bringing it any value anymore.
And so you see all these
messages like e pluribus unum.
These are all things
from American history,
but you put them all
together in a way
to make people feel like
this is uniting us together.
And I think that you're meant
to believe in the dollar
the same way you
would believe in God.
Put your faith in this money.
And another interesting
thing-- they've got all
the 13's all over
it, because I think
I counted 13 examples of
the number 13 on the dollar.
That's a number that's
associated with alchemy.
>>SEAN: And also the
Templars, because
of Friday the 13th being the
day that Molay was killed.
>> TWYMAN: There's that, yeah.
I'm not sure-- I
think there might
have been several reasons
why 13 was sacred to them.
But I think that is definitely
connected with alchemy.
And Baphomet has,
subsequent to the Templars,
been interpreted by
Western occultists
as being representative
of the power that
allows alchemy to happen
and magic, in general--
that this is the force that
transforms magically one
thing into another.
And so I think that,
to a certain extent,
that's the power that's still
operating in economics today.
>>SEAN: Well, we talk
about magic and alchemy.
All this indicates a spiritual
situation, basically,
on the planet-- a spiritual
being, non-physical reality
to the world that people
either can believe in or not.
But based on your experience
in studying these groups that
have practiced these
rituals for a reason,
do you think that
there are entities,
whether it be like Baphomet
or other entities that
are non-human,
non-physical, that
do exist that do have influence
and power that can help groups
like Templars and other
practitioners of ritual
magic in their quests, for
example, in their endeavors?
>> TWYMAN: I do think so.
And that's, of course,
just my opinion.
But I've had some
experience myself.
I've contacted some entities
on the Ouija Board before
and had some other
experiences that made
me think this stuff is real.
And I think once
you start looking
at that story from
that perspective--
the story of the Templars--
it all comes into perspective.
Like how is it that this head
gave them wisdom and made
them powerful?
Well, because there
really is a demon there.
So I think that's still
operating in the world today.
I think that Baphomet
is still in contact
with some of the people that
are making decisions today.
>>SEAN: So you think
Baphomet is a real demon?
>> TWYMAN: Oh, yeah.
He matches up with
this entity that's
described in the Zohar,
this cabalistic book,
as being the other god.
And it's an hermaphroditic
serpent combination
of Lilith and Samael,
these two demons.
But they describe him
as being the other god.
So it's almost like this
is the other major power
in the universe besides, I
guess, the Christian god.
So yeah, I think he's real.
The other thing they described
him as in Masonic literature
is the sun of suns
and the moon of moons.
This is viewed by a lot
of Western occultists
as being the most important
secret really and the biggest
power.
I think it's--
>>SEAN: Well, we talk
about how the Templars were
disbanded, technically,
by the Catholic church.
But would you say there are
indications of the Templar
order actually still
survived in different forms,
whether it be through Masonry
and other occult techniques?
You mentioned Crowley earlier.
But if, for example, if their
teachings survived, then
there are those who potentially
are in still positions of power
who are practicing
the same techniques,
the same sexual rituals, the
same bestiality and potentially
blood sacrifices as what
the Templars were doing.
No?
>> TWYMAN: Well,
there's the OTO that--
I'm not going to accuse them
of doing anything illegal,
but they definitely
do practice sex magic.
And they call themselves the
Order of Oriental Templars.
And then there's
the Freemasons who
definitely try to tie
themselves in with the Templars.
And scholars argue about whether
there's a real connection
or not.
But again, they're not thinking
about the supernatural aspect.
This is the way I see it.
I think all of these orders
have, at one point, someone
contacting a spiritual
entity and making
a contract with them.
And that's how these
orders get started.
So if you do that-- you talk
to Baphomet and contract him
to be the patron of
your order-- then I
think you are continuing
the Templar tradition.
You don't have to have a
charter from the Templars
to prove that.
So I think that any of these
groups that are doing that
are a legitimate
continuation of the Templars,
because they're in contact with
the legitimate head, the Outer
Head as they call him.
>>SEAN: Well, obviously
it's a very dark path
that a lot of your research
has taken you into.
But would you say that
ultimately your research
is helping people to
understand the essential power
structure of how the world works
and can actually empower people
by that knowledge and awareness?
>> TWYMAN: I think that yes,
definitely to realize that
people in positions of
power are contacting demons.
And even if they're not
directly in contact,
they're maybe in part of an
organization that is receiving
energy from a demon.
This is an important
aspect to realize.
And people should really
look at, like I said,
the supernatural aspect.
So many people are
looking for conspiracies
and trying to figure
out how something was
engineered by the conspiracy.
But if you think about
it from this perspective
and realize that there might
be spiritual influences that
are really in control,
inspiring people
to do certain things
on a grand plan
that maybe they even don't know
where it's leading, if nothing
else, it gives you
an understanding
of what's going on.
I still don't know how
to fight the injustice
of the current power structure.
But hopefully, someday
someone will learn what to do.
I don't know what to do,
but hopefully someone can.
>>SEAN: But you can also resist
the initiation or the overtures
if, for example, if you're
interested in questing
and to the forms of magic,
it's not only black.
It's not only dark
side, it would seem.
You don't have to
practice the negative
if you want to enhance
your being as a person,
let's say, and you're
interested by the nature
of the supernatural,
you're interested
by the spiritual quest.
There's obviously two paths.
So you can resist the
temptations and the darkness--
the opportunities that are
offered by the dark side, that
can be resisted as well, no?
>> TWYMAN: I'm sure.
And even Baphomet,
interestingly,
has a light side.
They basically describe him
as being a combination of God
and the Devil, a combination of
the heavenly and the infernal.
So this has always been
referred to in Western occultism
as the big secret is can you
somehow balance the greatest
powers in the universe, the
greatest conflicting powers,
and tap into them
both at the same time
without being destroyed.
And so there are some
people that do that and go
the bad way, the bad route.
And then some people do that
and retain their morality
and are good people.
So yeah, I definitely think
that there's two paths.
I even think that the Gnostics,
like I was saying before,
I think there were nice
versions and mean versions.
>>SEAN: But I think that's a
fascinating way to explain it.
In the day, there are always
going to be two options.
But the middle path
might be actually
the sanest, the
safest one possible
where you're not trying
to pretend to be something
that you're not.
And oftentimes, when you try
to be too good, as you end up
with these orders
like the Catholics
and others who appeared on
the surface to be all-knowing,
all-wise, all-loving,
and then they're
practicing things in the dark.
It's almost like you're saying
the middle path is actually
the most powerful, the safest,
the most pure and true, no?
>> TWYMAN: That's
been my estimation.
I'm so confused, at this
point, after looking
at all this material.
I don't know who to pray to.
I don't know who
the real god is.
So yeah, I think the safest
thing is to, like you said,
stay in the middle and hope
that it all clears itself up
eventually.
>>SEAN: Balance being the key.
>> TWYMAN: Yeah.
>>SEAN: Absolutely.
Well, thank you so much for
joining me today, Tracy.
>> TWYMAN: Thank you very much.
>>SEAN: I really
appreciate your time.
Well, there you go, folks--
some fascinating insights
from Tracy Twyman.
You may not agree with
or believe everything
that she has said
here, but I really
urge you to check out her
books, because they're
full of details.
As she mentioned,
"The Baphomet Mystery"
is 600 pages, really
well worth the read
if you want to explore more.
The road to truth
is a perilous path,
but that's why we walk
the edge of the Buzzsaw.
I'm your host, Sean Stone.
Remember, you are
the revolution.
[THEME MUSIC]